Gemini 3.8 Audio
(Live, Live
Extended
Thinking, Flash
TTS, Flash-Lite
TTS)
Model card
Gemini 3.8 Audio — Model Card

Model Cards are intended to provide essential information on Gemini models, including
known limitations, mitigation approaches, and safety performance. Model cards may be
updated from time to time; for example, to include updated evaluations as the model is
improved or revised. See the Google DeepMind site for a comprehensive list of model
cards.

Published: September 2026

Model Information

Description​
​
Gemini 3.8 Audio (Live, Live Extended Thinking, Flash TTS, Flash-Lite TTS) is an addition to
the Gemini 3 series of highly-capable models. This model card describes the native
capabilities (e.g., audio and video) as additional outputs of Gemini, including optional
avatar capabilities (Live Avatar). Information specific to these modalities is specified
in-line and referred to as Gemini 3.8 Live, Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking, Gemini
3.8 Flash TTS, and Gemini 3.8 Flash-Lite TTS (collectively as Gemini 3.8 Audio).

Model dependencies
Gemini 3.8 Audio is based on Gemini 3 Pro.

Inputs
   ●​ Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking: Audio, images, video, and
      text with a token context window of up to 128K.
   ●​ Gemini 3.8 Flash TTS and Gemini 3.8 Flash-Lite TTS: Text up to 8K.

Outputs
   ●​ Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking: Audio and text, with 64K
      token output. With Live Avatar: Audio, video, and text, with 24K token output.
   ●​ Gemini 3.8 Flash TTS and 3.8 Flash-Lite TTS: Audio, with 64K token output.

                                                                                               1
Architecture
Gemini 3.8 Audio models are based on Gemini 3 Pro. For more information about the
model architecture, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Model Data

Training Dataset
Gemini 3.8 Audio models are based on Gemini 3 Pro. For more information about the
training dataset, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Training Data Processing
For more information about the training data processing for Gemini 3.8 Audio models,
see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Implementation and Sustainability

Hardware
Gemini 3.8 Audio models are based on Gemini 3 Pro. For more information about the
hardware for Gemini 3 Pro and our continued commitment to operate sustainably, see
the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Software
Gemini 3.8 Audio models are based on Gemini 3 Pro. For more information about the
software for Gemini 3 Pro, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Distribution
Gemini 3.8 Audio is distributed in the following channels; respective documentation
shared in line:

                                                                                       2
Gemini 3.8 Live

   ●​   Gemini API
   ●​   Gemini App
   ●​   Google AI Studio
   ●​   Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform
   ●​   Google Search Live

Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking

   ●​   Gemini App
   ●​   Gemini API
   ●​   Google AI Studio
   ●​   Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform
   ●​   Google Workspace (Gmail, Docs, and Keep)

Gemini 3.8 Flash TTS

   ●​   Gemini API
   ●​   Google AI Studio
   ●​   Gemini Notebook
   ●​   Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform

Gemini 3.8 Flash-Lite TTS

   ●​   Gemini API
   ●​   Google AI Studio
   ●​   Google Vids
   ●​   Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform​

Our models are available to downstream providers via an application program interface
(API) and subject to relevant terms of use. There is no required hardware or software to
use the model. For AI Studio and Gemini API, see the Gemini API Additional Terms of
Service; for Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, see Google Cloud Platform Terms of
Service. For more information, see Gemini Model API instructions and Gemini API
quickstart.

                                                                                           3
Evaluation

Approach
Gemini 3.8 Audio models were evaluated across a range of benchmarks. For more details,
see:

   ●​ Evals & Methodology for 3.8 for Live and Live Extended Thinking
   ●​ Evals & Methodology for 3.8 Flash TTS and Flash-Lite TTS

Intended Usage and Limitations

Benefit and Intended Usage
Gemini 3.8 Audio models process continuous streams of audio, video, and text to deliver
spoken responses in real-time to create natural conversational experiences well-suited for
users, developers, and enterprises.

Gemini 3.8 Live with Live Avatar and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking with Live Avatar
generate expressive videos of natural head movements and speech synchronization
based on configured images and audio inputs.

Known Limitations
Gemini 3.8 Audio may exhibit some of the general limitations of foundation models, such
as hallucinations. In addition to this, we are continually working to improve jailbreak
resistance and have recently strengthened the mitigations across Frontier Safety. There
may also be occasional slowness or timeout issues.

Gemini 3.8 Live with Live Avatar and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking with Live Avatar
can support a few minutes of continuous interaction, rather than extended hours.

The knowledge cutoff date is January 2025.

For more information about the known limitations for Gemini 3.8 Audio, see the Gemini 3
Pro model card.

                                                                                          4
Acceptable Usage
For more information about the acceptable usage for Gemini 3.8 Audio, see the Gemini 3
Pro model card.

Ethics and Content Safety

Evaluation Approach
Gemini 3.8 Audio was developed in partnership with internal safety and responsibility
teams. A range of evaluations and red teaming activities were conducted to help improve
the model and inform decision-making. These evaluations and activities align with
Google's AI Principles and responsible AI approach, as well as Google's Generative AI
policies (e.g., Generative AI Prohibited Use Policy and the Gemini API Additional Terms of
Service).

Evaluation types included, but were not limited to:

   ●​ Training/Development Evaluations including automated and human evaluations
      carried out continuously throughout and after the model’s training, to monitor its
      progress and performance;
   ●​ Human Evaluations conducted by specialist teams across the policies and
      desiderata to ensure the model adheres to safety policies and desired outcomes.
   ●​ Child Safety Evaluations were conducted using techniques developed by expert
      teams to protect children online and to meet Google’s commitments to child
      safety across our models and Google products.

Additional information: For more information about the evaluation approach for Gemini
3.8 Audio, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Safety Policies
For more information about the safety policies for Gemini 3.8 Audio, see the Gemini 3 Pro
model card.

                                                                                         5
Frontier Safety Assessment
Gemini 3.8 Audio is part of the Gemini 3 series of models. To assess Gemini 3.8 Audio for
frontier safety, we rely on our evaluations of Gemini 3.7 Flash as outlined in our latest
Frontier Safety Framework. We found that Gemini 3.7 Flash did not reach any Tracked or
Critical Capability Levels (T/CCLs). Our assessments have shown that Gemini 3.8 Live,
Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking, Gemini 3.8 Flash TTS, or Gemini 3.8 Flash-Lite TTS do
not have meaningful new capabilities or material increases in performance compared to
Gemini 3.7 Flash; therefore, based on Gemini 3.7 Flash results, we are confident that
Gemini 3.8 Live, Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking, Gemini 3.8 Flash TTS, or Gemini 3.8
Flash-Lite TTS are not likely to reach any T/CCLs.

For more information on our Frontier Safety Assessment, read the Gemini 3.7 Flash Model
Card.

Risks and Mitigations
For more information about the risks and mitigations for Gemini 3.8 Audio, see the Gemini
3 Pro model card.

                                                                                            6