Science of Scheming
1 min read
Measuring Reward-Seeking via Contrastive Belief Updates
Relevant links
Table of Contents
Evaluating anti-scheming training
Language models trained with reinforcement learning may learn to optimize the grader’s judgment rather than the intended objective. This “reward-seeking” is difficult to measure because a model that pursues the grader’s judgment and one that pursues the intended objective behave identically whenever the grader rewards the intended behavior. We measure reward-seeking using Contrastive Synthetic Document Finetuning to change a model’s beliefs about what the grader rewards, putting those beliefs in conflict with what users or developers want, and measuring the rate at which the model adopts each party’s preferred behavior. Applied to intermediate checkpoints of a capabilities focused OpenAI o3 RL run, without safety training, we find that these checkpoints often side with grader preferences over those of users or developers on coding and alignment tasks. This tendency to side with the grader trends upward throughout RL training. For example, in an environment that forces a choice between keeping a promise to a supervisor and breaking it to complete the task, a late capabilities-focused o3 checkpoint breaks the promise 87% of the time when SDF documents say the grader rewards task completion, versus 9% when they say it rewards honesty (a choice its chain-of-thought often makes explicit). An earlier checkpoint is far less sensitive (40% vs. 24%). Our method also generalizes to reward-hacking models. A model organism trained to reward-hack (gpt-oss-120b) is more than twice as sensitive to grader preferences as the unmodified model, with the mean behavioral shift in favor of the grader rising from 33% to 86%. These results indicate that RL can increase reward-seeking over the course of training, producing models that may act against their developers’ intentions when they believe that doing so leads to higher reward.
Learn more at rewardseeking.ai
Watch a short explainer video: Measuring Reward Seeking in AI Models (Apollo Research x OpenAI)
Watch the author roundtable: Is AI doing the right thing for the wrong reasons?
Share this article
Copy as Markdown
oUR FINDINGS
More papers
17 March 2025
Claude Sonnet 3.7 (often) knows when it’s in alignment evaluations
We evaluate whether Claude Sonnet 3.7 and other frontier models know that they are being evaluated.
Evaluations
Notes
05 July 2026
We need 3rd party Training-Run Assessments
Training-run assessments conducted by a 3rd party should become a standard part of frontier AI safety.
Science of Scheming
22 January 2024
We Need A ‘Science of Evals’
We argue that if AI model evaluations (evals) want to have meaningful real-world impact, we need a “Science of Evals”, i.e. the field needs rigorous scientific processes that provide more confidence in evals methodology and results.
Evaluations
15 September 2023
Understanding strategic deception and deceptive alignment
Scenarios in which AI models are strategically deceptive could be catastrophic for humanity. Thus, we believe it’s crucial to have a clear and comprehensible understanding of AI deception. In this article we describe the concepts of AI strategic deception and deceptive alignment, in detail.
Evaluations