Gemini 3.8 Audio
(Live, Live
Extended
Thinking)
Model card
Gemini 3.8 Audio — Model Card

Model Cards are intended to provide essential information on Gemini models, including
known limitations, mitigation approaches, and safety performance. Model cards may be
updated from time to time; for example, to include updated evaluations as the model is
improved or revised. See the Google DeepMind site for a comprehensive list of model
cards.

Published: September 2026

Model Information

Description
Gemini 3.8 Audio (Live, Live Extended Thinking) is an addition to the Gemini 3 series of
highly-capable, natively multimodal, reasoning models. The models are cost-efficient and
fast, optimized for high-volume, latency-sensitive tasks like real-time dialogue. This model
card describes the native audio capabilities as additional outputs of Gemini. Information
specific to these modalities is specified in-line and referred to as Gemini 3.8 Live, and
Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking referred to collectively as Gemini 3.8 Audio.

Model dependencies
Gemini 3.8 Audio is based on Gemini 3 Pro.

Inputs
Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking: Audio, images, video, and text
with a token context window of up to 128K.

Outputs
Gemini 3.8 Live and 3.8 Live Extended Thinking: Audio and text, with 64K token output.

Architecture
Gemini 3.8 Audio models are based on Gemini 3 Pro. For more information about the
model architecture, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.
Model Data

Training Dataset
Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking are based on Gemini 3 Pro. For
more information about the training dataset, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Training Data Processing
For more information about the training data processing for Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini
3.8 Live Extended Thinking, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Implementation and Sustainability

Hardware
Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking are based on Gemini 3 Pro. For
more information about the hardware for Gemini 3 Pro and our continued commitment to
operate sustainably, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Software
Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking are based on Gemini 3 Pro. For
more information about the software for Gemini 3 Pro, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Distribution
Gemini 3.8 Live is distributed in the following channels; respective documentation shared
in line:

   ●​ Gemini API
   ●​ Gemini App
   ●​ Google AI Studio
   ●​ Google Cloud / Vertex AI
   ●​ Google Search Live

Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking is distributed in the following channels; respective
documentation shared in line:

   ●​   Gemini App
   ●​   Gemini API
   ●​   Google AI Studio
   ●​   Google Cloud / Vertex AI
   ●​   Google Workspace (Gmail, Docs, and Keep)

Our models are available to downstream providers via an application program interface
(API) and subject to relevant terms of use. There is no required hardware or software to
use the model. For AI Studio and Gemini API, see the Gemini API Additional Terms of
Service; for Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, see Google Cloud Platform Terms of
Service. For more information, see Gemini Model API instructions and Gemini API
quickstart.

Evaluation

Approach
Gemini 3.8 Audio (Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking) was evaluated
across a range of benchmarks. See Evals & Methodology for 3.8 Live Extended Thinking
for more details.

Intended Usage and Limitations

Benefit and Intended Usage
Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking process continuous streams of
audio, video, and text to deliver spoken responses in real-time to create natural
conversational experiences well-suited for users, developers, and enterprises.
Known Limitations
Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking may exhibit some of the general
limitations of foundation models, such as hallucinations. In addition to this, we are
continually working to improve jailbreak resistance and have recently strengthened the
mitigations across Frontier Safety. There may also be occasional slowness or timeout
issues. The knowledge cutoff date is January 2025.

For more information about the known limitations for Gemini 3 Pro, see the Gemini 3 Pro
model card.

Acceptable Usage
For more information about the acceptable usage for Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live
Extended Thinking, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Ethics and Content Safety

Evaluation Approach
Gemini 3.8 Audio was developed in partnership with internal safety and responsibility
teams. A range of evaluations and red teaming activities were conducted to help improve
the model and inform decision-making. These evaluations and activities align with
Google's AI Principles and responsible AI approach, as well as Google's Generative AI
policies (e.g., Generative AI Prohibited Use Policy and the Gemini API Additional Terms of
Service).

Evaluation types included but were not limited to:

   ●​ Training/Development Evaluations including automated and human evaluations
      carried out continuously throughout and after the model’s training, to monitor its
      progress and performance;
   ●​ Human Evaluations conducted by specialist teams across the policies and
      desiderata to ensure the model adheres to safety policies and desired outcomes.

Additional information: For more information about the evaluation approach for Gemini
3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.
Safety Policies
For more information about the safety policies for Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live
Extended Thinking, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.

Frontier Safety Assessment
Gemini 3.8 Audio is part of the Gemini 3 series of models. We evaluated Gemini 3.7 Flash
as outlined in our latest Frontier Safety Framework, and we found that it did not reach any
Tracked or Critical Capability Levels (T/CCLs). Our assessments have shown that Gemini
3.8 Live or Gemini 3.8 Live Extended Thinking does not have meaningful new capabilities
or material increases in performance compared to Gemini 3.7 Flash; therefore, based on
Gemini 3.7 Flash results, we are confident that Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8 Live
Extended Thinking are not likely to reach any T/CCLs.

For more information on our Frontier Safety Assessment, read the Gemini 3.7 Flash Model
Card.

Risks and Mitigations
For more information about the risks and mitigations for Gemini 3.8 Live and Gemini 3.8
Live Extended Thinking, see the Gemini 3 Pro model card.