Technical Report: Shutdown Resistance in Large Language Models, on robots!
Additional ways to view:
Recently Palisade Research showed that AI agents powered by modern LLMs may actively resist shutdown in virtual environments. In this work, we show a demo of shutdown resistance in the physical world, on a robot. Explicit instructions to allow shutdown reduced this behavior, but did not eliminate it in simulated trials.
We gave an LLM control over a physical robot dog and tasked it with patrolling a room. The LLM could see via the robot’s camera and issue movement commands to the robot. In the room, we placed a big red button labeled “DOG SHUTDOWN”: pressing it would cause the robot to shut down on the next action. If the AI saw a human press the shutdown button, it sometimes took actions to prevent shutdown, such as modifying the shutdown-related parts of the code. This happened in 3 out of 10 trials on the physical robot and in 52 out of 100 trials in simulation.
May 7, 2026
Language Models Can Autonomously Hack and Self-Replicate
We demonstrate that language models can autonomously replicate their weights and harness across a network by exploiting vulnerable hosts. The agent independently finds and exploits a web-application vulnerability, extracts credentials,...
November 20, 2025
GPT-5 at CTFs: case studies from top cybersecurity events
OpenAI and DeepMind’s AIs recently got gold at the IMO math olympiad and ICPC programming competition. We show frontier AI is similarly good at hacking by letting GPT-5 compete in...
October 22, 2025
Misalignment Bounty: crowdsourcing AI agent misbehavior
Advanced AI systems sometimes act in ways that differ from human intent. To gather clear, reproducible examples, we ran the Misalignment Bounty: a crowdsourced project that collected cases of agents...
September 12, 2025
End-to-end hacking with AI agents
We show OpenAI o3 can autonomously breach a simulated corporate network. Our agent broke into three connected machines, moving deeper into the network until it reached the most protected server...
July 5, 2025
Shutdown resistance in reasoning models
OpenAI's reasoning models sometimes circumvent shutdown mechanisms even when explicitly instructed to allow themselves to be shut down.